"MapReduce-MPI WWW Site"_mws - "MapReduce-MPI Documentation"_md :c

:link(mws,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/mapreduce.html)
:link(md,Manual.html)

:line

MapReduce sort_keys() method :h3

uint64_t MapReduce::sort_keys(int (*mycompare)(char *, int, char *, int)) :pre

This calls the sort_keys() method of a MapReduce object, which sorts a
KeyValue object by its keys to produce a new KeyValue object.  The
mycompare() function you provide compares pairs of keys for the sort,
since the MapReduce object does not know how to interpret the content
of your keys.  The method returns the total number of key/value pairs
in the new KeyValue object which will be the same as in the original.

This method is used to sort key/value pairs by key before a KeyValue
object is transformed into a KeyMultiValue object, e.g. via the
"clone()"_clone.html, "collapse()"_collapse.html, or
"convert()"_convert.html methods.  Note that these operations preserve
the order of paires in the KeyValue object when creating a
KeyMultiValue object, which can then be passed to your application for
output, e.g. via the "reduce()"_reduce.html method.  Note however,
that sort_keys() does NOT sort keys across all processors but only
sorts the keys on each processor within the KeyValue object.  Thus if
you "gather()"_gather.html or "aggregate()"_aggregate.html after
performing a sort_keys(), the sorted order will be lost, since those
methods move key/value pairs to new processors.

In this example the user function is called mycompare() and it must
have the following interface

int mycompare(char *key1, int len1, char *key2, int len2) :pre

Key1 and key2 are pointers to the byte strings for 2 keys, each of
length len1 and len2.  Your function should compare them and return a
-1, 0, or 1 if key1 is less than, equal to, or greater than key2,
respectively.

This method is an on-processor operation, requiring no communication.
When run in parallel, each processor operates only on the key/value
pairs it stores.

:line

[Related methods]: "sort_values()"_sort_values.html,
"sort_multivalues()"_sort_multivalues.html
